---
title: "MAT112"
date: 2019-07-06T15:27:17+06:00
draft: false
# page title background image
bg_image: "images/backgrounds/page-title.jpg"
# meta description
description : "The course is primarily designed to develop the mathematical knowledge needed by the students to meet the demands of business operation. It is to provide a solid coverage of the most basic and frequently occurring business situations."
# course thumbnail
image: "images/courses/course-2.jpg"
# taxonomy
category: "Mathematics"
# teacher
teacher: "Kamarul Ariffin Mansor"
# duration
duration : "14 Weeks"
# weekly
weekly : "03 hours"
# course fee
fee : "From: RM50 per credit"
# apply url
apply_url : "#"
# type
type: "course"
---


### About Course

The course is primarily designed to develop the mathematical knowledge needed by the students to meet the demands of business operation. It is to provide a solid coverage of the most basic and frequently occurring business situations.

At the end of the course, students should be able to:

* Express basic algebraic concepts in solving business application problems. ( C2 )

* Solve mathematical problems encountered in banking and finance, trading and retailing, and accounting. ( C3 )

* Determine mathematical concepts to solve mathematical problems in banking and finance, trading and retailing, and accounting. ( C4 )

* Relate business mathematics applications to their respective field. ( A4 )</p>

### Requirements

This is a 3 credit hours course.  

* No course prerequisite.
* Active students during course enrollment.


### Syllabus Contents

* Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics  
  1.1 Review on Algebra:  
  1.2 Sequence  

* Mathematical Applications in Banking and Finance  
  2.1 Simple Interest  
  2.2 Bank Discount and Promissory Notes  
  2.3 Compound Interest  
  2.4 Annuity  

* Mathematical Applications In trading and retailing  
  3.1 Trade and cash discounts  
  3.2 Mark up and Mark Down  
  3.3 Instalment Purchase  

* Mathematical Applications In Accounting  
  4.1 Depreciation  


### Fees and Funding

* Free for **FULL TIME** UiTM Kedah students.  
* Others: RM50 per credit hour.  
